.TH MYROCKS_HOTBACKUP "1" "15 May 2020" "MariaDB 10\&.6" "MariaDB Database System"
.SH NAME
myrocks_hotbackup \- streaming backup for MariaDB MyRocks
.SH DESCRIPTION
Usage:
.PP
Backup: set \fB\-o\fR pipefail; myrocks_hotbackup \fB\-\-user\fR=\fI\,root\/\fR \fB\-\-password\fR=\fI\,pw\/\fR \fB\-\-port\fR=\fI\,3306\/\fR \fB\-\-checkpoint_dir=\fR<directory where temporary backup hard links are created> | ssh \fB\-o\fR NoneEnabled=yes remote_server 'tar \fB\-xi\fR \fB\-C\fR <directory on remote server where backups will be sent>' . You need to execute backup command on a server where you take backups.
.PP
Backup using WDT: myrocks_hotbackup \fB\-\-user\fR=\fI\,root\/\fR \fB\-\-password\fR=\fI\,pw\/\fR \fB\-\-stream\fR=\fI\,wdt\/\fR \fB\-\-checkpoint_dir=\fR<directory where temporary backup hard links are created> \fB\-\-destination=\fR<remote host name> \fB\-\-backup_dir=\fR<remote directory name>. This has to be executed at the src host.
.PP
Move\-Back: myrocks_hotbackup \fB\-\-move_back\fR \fB\-\-datadir=\fR<dest mysql datadir> \fB\-\-rocksdb_datadir=\fR<dest rocksdb datadir> \fB\-\-rocksdb_waldir=\fR<dest rocksdb wal dir> \fB\-\-backup_dir=\fR<where backup files are stored> . You need to execute move\-back command on a server where backup files are sent.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show this help message and exit
.TP
\fB\-i\fR CHECKPOINT_INTERVAL, \fB\-\-interval\fR=\fI\,CHECKPOINT_INTERVAL\/\fR
Number of seconds to renew checkpoint
.TP
\fB\-c\fR CHECKPOINT_DIRECTORY, \fB\-\-checkpoint_dir\fR=\fI\,CHECKPOINT_DIRECTORY\/\fR
Local directory name where checkpoints will be
created.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR DATADIR, \fB\-\-datadir\fR=\fI\,DATADIR\/\fR
backup mode: src MySQL datadir. move_back mode: dest
MySQL datadir
.TP
\fB\-s\fR OUTPUT_STREAM, \fB\-\-stream\fR=\fI\,OUTPUT_STREAM\/\fR
Setting streaming backup options. Currently tar, WDT
and xbstream are supported. Default is tar
.TP
\fB\-\-destination\fR=\fI\,DESTINATION\/\fR
Remote server name. Only used for WDT mode so far.
.TP
\fB\-\-avg_mbytes_per_sec\fR=\fI\,AVG_MBYTES_PER_SEC\/\fR
Average backup rate in MBytes/sec. WDT only.
.TP
\fB\-\-extra_wdt_sender_options\fR=\fI\,EXTRA_WDT_SENDER_OPTIONS\/\fR
Extra options for WDT sender
.TP
\fB\-\-extra_wdt_receiver_options\fR=\fI\,EXTRA_WDT_RECEIVER_OPTIONS\/\fR
Extra options for WDT receiver
.TP
\fB\-u\fR MYSQL_USER, \fB\-\-user\fR=\fI\,MYSQL_USER\/\fR
MySQL user name
.TP
\fB\-p\fR MYSQL_PASSWORD, \fB\-\-password\fR=\fI\,MYSQL_PASSWORD\/\fR
MySQL password name
.TP
\fB\-P\fR MYSQL_PORT, \fB\-\-port\fR=\fI\,MYSQL_PORT\/\fR
MySQL port number
.TP
\fB\-S\fR MYSQL_SOCKET, \fB\-\-socket\fR=\fI\,MYSQL_SOCKET\/\fR
MySQL socket path. Takes precedence over \fB\-\-port\fR.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-move_back\fR
Moving MyRocks backup files to proper locations.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR ROCKSDB_DATADIR, \fB\-\-rocksdb_datadir\fR=\fI\,ROCKSDB_DATADIR\/\fR
RocksDB target data directory where backup data files
will be moved. Must be empty.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR ROCKSDB_WALDIR, \fB\-\-rocksdb_waldir\fR=\fI\,ROCKSDB_WALDIR\/\fR
RocksDB target data directory where backup wal files
will be moved. Must be empty.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR BACKUPDIR, \fB\-\-backup_dir\fR=\fI\,BACKUPDIR\/\fR
backup mode for WDT: Remote directory to store backup.
move_back mode: Locations where backup files are
stored.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-skip_check_frm_timestamp\fR
skipping to check if frm files are updated after
starting backup.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR DEBUG_SIGNAL_FILE, \fB\-\-debug_signal_file\fR=\fI\,DEBUG_SIGNAL_FILE\/\fR
debugging purpose: waiting until the specified file is
created
.SH "SEE ALSO"
For more information, please refer to the MariaDB Knowledge Base, available online at https://mariadb.com/kb/
.SH AUTHOR
MariaDB Foundation (http://www.mariadb.org/).
